and T5.
There are many ways to get the best results.
The best way is to get the best results.
Let me share with you a vision of the future which offers hope.
It is that we embark on a program to counter the awesome Soviet missile threat
with measures that are defensive.
Let us turn to the very strengths in technology that spawned our great industrial base
and that have given us the quality of life we enjoy today.
What if free people could live secure in the knowledge
that their security did not rest upon the threat of instant U.S. retaliation to deter a Soviet attack,
that we could intercept and destroy strategic ballistic missiles
before they reached our own soil or that of our allies?
I know this is a formidable technical task, one that may not be accomplished by the present.
Victor Technologies, the high-flying hardware computer company which took a nosedive this year,
may be bought out by the British firm Applied Computer Technologies.
Piloting the space shuttle is very difficult to do, one would think.
Can a kid or a normal person actually pull this off?
What I did when I designed this was I understood that problem.
It seems the sweep of technology has no limits.
In San Francisco this week, the world's first robot bartender was unveiled.
The robot can talk and take spoken orders and can mix 200 different drinks.
But on the first test run, the robot knocked a glass off the bar and onto the floor
and poured beer all over the counter.
The robot's designer said there were still some bugs to be worked out.
[Music]
Hello everyone, thank you guys for joining us. Raymond Peet, Georgi Dinkov.
Ray, how are you? How are things in Eugene, Oregon?
Very good. The usual cold, wet and dark winter.
And Georgi, how are things in DC?
Dark, but for different reasons.
It's just the political climate is murkier than it was a week ago.
We had some snow yesterday, but it's all melted by now.
It's just cold and windy, but dry.
So I want to devolve into political things, but first I want to tackle Ray's newsletter.
And so Ray, maybe giving us an elevator pitch and going through
and talking about your newsletter, Body Temperature, Inflammation and Aging.
I think that would be a great place to start and then we could kind of swing into political things.
But did you want to maybe give us your motivation for writing it?
Oh, I've just been watching for many years people, doctors, like a totally psychotic woman.
Her brother said, but isn't it significant that her eardrum temperature is only 96 degrees?
And the doctor said, oh, but that's normal for these people.
And about 40 years ago, a woman supposedly with dementia,
she couldn't find her way home if she was let out of the house by herself.
She mentioned that her temperature had been as low as 92 degrees.
And when she took a little progesterone and got her body warm, she returned to graduate school
and got straight A's for a master's degree.
So just warming up the brain five or six degrees, you can gain about 60 or 70 IQ points.
And when I was working on physiology of hamster aging,
I noticed that there were some changes that worked under the influence of either temperature or hormones.
And estrogen, which lowers your temperature, happened to cause microtubules to appear.
And progesterone, which actually raised the temperature, had the opposite effect on the microtubules.
And I started thinking about the effect of cold and hot water
when the microtubules are sensitive to the structural temperature of the water,
how much order there is in it.
And there are lots of enzymes in our cells that are structurally sensitive to the temperature
of the environment, for example, to the degree that as the temperature goes down,
some enzymes are suddenly totally inactivated while others are activated.
So it isn't just a chemical reaction, but it's a shift in the structure according to the temperature of the water.
And so there's something about mammals and birds that they function very well
if they live at or above 37 degrees Celsius, about 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.
Birds very often like a much, much higher temperature.
But every organism has a specific range where its enzymes work,
and the transition can be very sudden.
And there's a system that has just been more recently discovered called the heat shock proteins.
And it happens that estrogen receptors are closely tied into the heat shock proteins.
And so what these proteins and estrogen are doing is trying to save the terribly stressed organism
that doesn't have the heat to keep working.
It does something to lock the structure up and protect it structurally.
And you can see that in the appearance and disappearance of microtubules
and the activity of various enzymes.
And anyway, that has been in the background of watching people when they take thyroid or need thyroid
or warm up their brains by taking progesterone or eating more sugar and protein and so on.
And so the fact that the national temperature, especially in the last 50 years,
has dropped about a degree Fahrenheit for men and somewhat less for young women.
But for postmenopausal women, their temperature has fallen about as much as men.
And so the fact that women, young women, have a higher body temperature than the average man
is an indicator of progesterone ruling their physiology enough to keep them working
and avoiding some of the aging diseases that men get as long as they still are cycling and making progesterone.
And so in this newsletter, I just go through all of the things that have been known relating to inflammation,
aging, degeneration, and disease as it relates to failing to keep your temperature up where it should be.
Silly question, but the microtubules, is that the same thing as the cytoskeleton of the cell?
It's a big part of it.
It's the big hollow ones that are involved in cell division and part of the system of movement.
But there are several types of smaller intermediate and smaller filaments.
Wasn't there a recent study showing that pregnenolone is one of the most effective stabilizers of the structure of the microtubules and cholesterol as well?
Cholesterol, pregnenolone, and progesterone.
And we talked about it a while ago, Ray, the hardening and the suppleness of tissue or a cell,
and that being a big part about aging and energy.
And unfortunately, I think it was an interview that never actually aired,
but it was really interesting talking about energy having a softening effect and then the deprivation of energy having this hardening effect.
And that's, of course, associated with fibrosis and calcification, correct?
And cancer.
There are several articles that are very interesting that, for example, once you know that a tumor hardens,
these people will say that, for example, for telling whether breast cancer has spread to the lymph nodes,
all you have to do is feel for the lymph nodes and see if they're abnormally hardened.
If they're not hardened, they're not cancerous.
And you see estrogen as one of the primary hardening aspects of aging and things like that that's driving the hardening?
Yeah, anything that knocks the energy down.
And it's kind of odd, like the carbon dioxide and the generation of heat have totally been sidelined as the effects of proper mitochondrial respiration.
But people in the health world are so obsessed with mitochondria, but those two things are rarely ever talked about.
Is that a little strange?
Very strange.
That's part of what organizes my thinking, looking at the reason and the nature of the myths that people have created to support their way of life and their belief system.
And mostly the giant corporations that run science and publication, ignoring temperature.
In my newsletter, I talk about the basis that goes back to the idea that Raymond Pearl, a professor at Johns Hopkins, promoted that if you live fast and warm,
you'll use up all your heartbeats and burn all your permitted calories and have to die young.
And so he advocated being very lazy and staying cool to live a long time.
Was he just stupid or was he supported by industry?
Is there a specific outcome for the rate of living theory?
He was immersed in the matrix of industry, so that was all part of it.
But I think he had to be really pretty stupid.
You put up a picture of a hummingbird right below his picture, and you can see the difference in vitality and mentality between the two organisms.
His experiment was on seeds or something?
To me, a layman, it sounds really stupid.
It just sounds really ridiculous of what his experiment was.
Once you get used to it, that's not at all unusual.
For example, someone was just asking me about the telomere theory of aging and the idea that we have an inborn number of cell divisions,
which really derives straight from Pearl's idea that we have only so many heartbeats or so many calories that we can produce in a lifespan.
For Hayflick, it was so many cell divisions that were allotted.
The first group of his papers that I read was in 1970.
I had to show them around to my friends because I couldn't believe that anyone could really say such stupid things.
His whole career, if you see it in terms of, for example, one paper, he kept one group of cells frozen in liquid nitrogen, very cold, for a year or two.
In another, he kept in the lab in the usual dish.
His conclusion was that being frozen at minus 70 degrees Celsius or whatever was cells don't age.
[Laughter]
Well, sure.
Your orientation was shaped before this by Albert St. Georgi.
So you were kind of reading the good stuff, and that's why these ideas seem so ridiculous to you when you were confronted with them?
Oh, yeah.
But I had started reading the encyclopedias, which even the little funk and lagnols had very good objective articles in it.
And then we got the 1950 Britannica, and some of its articles are still the best on the subject available.
The newer 1960s editions have gone somewhat stupid compared to the classics from 1900 to the 1950s.
The Britannica was a great source of orientation in science and culture.
Yes, Albert, I'm sorry, Albert St. Georgi was much later.
Was there a counter, was Lamarck like the counter to this kind of rate of living theory, or you're talking about the Britannica?
Was there an idea that was suppressed in favor of the rate of living theory?
Yeah, it grew most directly out of August Weissman's wear and tear theory.
The rate of living is just another version of Weissman's wear and tear.
And the free radical, Denham-Harman's theory of free radical aging damage to the mitochondria, that's just more wear and tear theory.
And part of the essence of Weissman's ideology was to destroy Lamarck and actual Darwinism to support the essentially idealistic,
anti-evolutionary position of the, what's the first genetic guy, the monk, Mendel, Gregor Mendel.
His position was simply derived from Catholic doctrine that nothing essential changes.
Genes are immortal, and so the apparent changes that you see that are mistaken for evolution are just mixing immortal genes.
And for Weissman, the germline is immortal, and the body, the soma, is mortal.
So Weissman was just rephrasing the Christian doctrine of Mendel.
And so those were getting built into the authoritarian side of the medical and biological cultures.
Meanwhile, there was the actual science going along at ground level with people like Jacques Loeb and Alexis Carroll, Otto Warburg and St. Georgi and so on.
Okay, so Otto Warburg, they would have been like the pro, they would have been the vitalists or the animists compared to the 1928 Raymond Pearl types.
I'm trying to say like who are the pro-metabolic people in the '30s?
Well, Warburg obviously and Frederick Koch. Frederick Koch inspired at least St. Georgi.
And I don't think Warburg ever said anything about Koch, but his ideas were really kind of vitalistic or holistic because he said the whole organism is the immune system.
The vitality of the whole thing isn't separable, and that's what the mainline embryologists were seeing, that you can take part of an early embryo and isolate it, and it will produce a whole organism.
So it's not an assemblage of parts. The ovum has an intention, and if you cut the dividing parts of the ovum into several pieces, each one can still fulfill its intention of becoming a whole organism.
And that idea continued into field theories of all sorts in the '20s and '30s.
People recognizing Warburg's work, for example, saw that if you look at an area that's developing a cancer, you can find at the center a perfect malignant bunch of cells.
But surrounding that, the next adrening ring of cells will be pre-malignant, very degenerated, but not decisively cancerous and revertible if you change their embryological position or their place in the organism.
And surrounding that is less and less inflamed cells.
In the '30s, there was lots of evidence showing that cancer is a field process under some degree of control of the surrounding organism.
And in psychology, Gestalt psychology was extending that whole thing, thinking of the brain as similar to the organism, working in terms of holes, not wires and digital computable units, but as holes and images.
That whole thing, the Second World War distracted from it, but there was a very deliberate killing off of it with several both government and industry trends to sell the idea that we are mechanisms.
And to totally knock out of science history all of this holistic embryological field understanding of nature and the organism.
Have you had any discussion with people in regards to the telomere theory and, I mean, proponents of the theory, and have you asked their opinion on how is it that if the rate of living is so important, if telomere length is so important, how come every attempt to inhibit telomerase seems to lead to cancer?
There have been at least five or six companies. The enzyme telomerase, every time a company tries to come up with a drug to inhibit that enzyme to preserve the length of telomeres, that seems to invariably cause cancer in pretty much every animal model that they've tried.
I think it's just one of the organizing things that has to be a whole, to get a whole functioning organism. You can produce cancer in about a million different ways. I think that's just one of them.
Right. What I'm trying to get at is that it seems that trying to manipulate the telomere length, or at least artificially keep it long, which is kind of like the corollary of that rate of living or the long telomere thing,
every time they come up with a drug that tries to keep the telomeres artificially long, they seem to be endangering some kind of a cancerous process, or at least all of the drugs that they've developed so far seems to be, that seems to be the end result so far, they're being cancerous in the animal models that they tried.
I went through the arguments, it's been about 15 or 20 years, I think, but at that time there was accumulating very clear evidence that some very old 90 or 100 year old individuals had long telomeres,
and some young people in their 20s and 30s had extremely short worn out looking telomeres.
And I think the correlation of it strictly with aging has been a biased sampling to fit the ideology.
Trevor Burrus: How do you think Richard Dawkins' ideas of the selfish gene grow out of Weissman's? Was he part of that group? I mean, he's not that old, but he seems to be sort of like the protege of Weissman, you know, just living in the modern times, he seems to be spitting out the same kind of nonsense.
Richard Dawkins' Yeah, I think it's some kind of growing up family personality development that happens.
Trevor Burrus: Do you think maternal stress or like having some sort of like a rough childhood leads people to develop such a twisted view of nature? He seems to be coming from a fairly well-off family, or at least not a poor one.
Richard Dawkins' Oh, yeah. They identify with the interests of the royalty and ruling classes.
The ideology is classical, ancient doctrine that the divine right of kings is something built into the universe.
For example, meritocracy derives from the idea of an unchanging, un-evolving social order.
And naturally, you can't have monkeys turning into people if you're going to have divine kings, everything arranged in a heavenly order, a great chain of being from angels to kings, all the way down to ordinary people and monkeys near the bottom.
It's so deeply into our culture. Most professors don't want to acknowledge that that's where our history has come from.
Trevor Burrus: Bertrand Russell seems to have some of those views of Dawkins, but I felt like by reading his works that he eventually realized that the ruling class is just trying to enslave everybody.
And while he still wrote and did work in service of them, I think every once in a while he spoke the truth. Do you have a similar impression of him?
Bertrand Russell, Jr.: Oh, absolutely. He was as high in the ruling class as you can be in England without being royal.
And so he grew up with that perfect, concrete view of logic and mentality, wanted to show that our divine mentality and clear logic is identical with mathematics.
And then in middle age, he actually started thinking about it and said, "Well, we really don't know whether Leibniz might have been right that everything is defined partly by where it is and what it's with.
And if everything is part of one's being is where one is, then everything is constantly changing its essence.
And so how can you have language and a perfect mathematical language if reality is actually context sensitive?
If it makes a difference to the Earth that the moon and the sun and Saturn and Mars are moving around in space, could it affect the essence of the Earth that other things are related to it in space and time?"
And Russell just had that simple insight. How can you define things in isolation?
Where do we have the evidence that there are timeless entities which atoms are believed to be?
And at first he was calling the units of his thinking logical atoms, but as he thought more about the Leibnizian possibilities of metaphysics and ontology,
he realized that there is no evidence basis for having these abstract atomic views of logic.
Simply his ability, being very intelligent, he was able to learn and actually think his way out of it.
It sounds like maybe he was a radical empiricist later in life?
Yeah, pretty much. He didn't talk about it because there was no place to talk effectively.
I think the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein also had a big impression on him because he was one of his students.
And Wittgenstein then asked Bertrand Russell to write the foreword to his magnum opus, Tractatus Logico-Philosophical, as it was called.
And Bertrand Russell wrote it and Wittgenstein absolutely hated it and said, "You think like a computer. This is not what this book is all about."
And he had a falling out and I think that's one of the things that Russell was devastated because he thought Wittgenstein was brilliant
and if this brilliant mind thinks that I'm dumb as a bag of rocks and I just don't get what logic and philosophy and life are all about, then I must change my…
Yeah, he said that that was the event that made him turn to politics and social moral philosophy.
He realized he wasn't smart enough, but he actually was intelligent enough to change his mind.
I wanted to ask a question about carbon dioxide and temperature.
I saw several studies performed in the 70s that were done in the United States and they were giving people either vitamin B1 or acetazolamide or the two together
and also warming people up and they were able to permanently cure severe psychiatric diseases that are nowadays still considered incurable.
How is it possible that human trials like this could occur in the 70s and this knowledge is out there widely available and these things cannot seem to be possible to happen now?
You just cannot get funding.
If you try to convince a funding body to give you money for vitamin B1 or acetazolamide, I'm pretty sure they will laugh you out of the room.
What was different back then? I mean, it was still a fairly authoritarian time, wasn't it?
Before that, some psychiatrists put some patients in a house with continuously elevated carbon dioxide and all of their psychopathic conditions improved.
What that elevated CO2 does is to increase your metabolic rate and body temperature.
So there have been lots of workable therapies that no one sells those things.
You can't make a trillion dollars selling thiamine or carbon dioxide.
But they were still done in the 70s, right? And it was fairly large in terms of how many people were involved.
Those things seem to have completely died out and disappeared.
So is this basically due to the fact that the pharma industry really took full control of academia over the last two, three decades?
Oh, yeah. It's a continuing process.
They're trying to finish it off now, even get the nuisance students and professors out of the universities and turn it over to a few, one or two corporations who will prepare the courses and sell the licenses to the students.
Doesn't this new model also completely, well not completely, but move us further away from experimentation towards abstract thinking?
I mean, how would experiments be performed if all the universities are closed?
Well, experiments have mostly been a nuisance to the business of science.
You know, the journals just won't publish things that are anomalous seeming observations.
You know, the fate of Halton Arp and his pictures of galaxies, they wouldn't let him use their telescope anymore because he saw things he shouldn't have.
I have a few friends that have chemical degrees, graduate degrees in chemistry, and little by little chemistry seems to move entirely towards the so-called in silico modeling.
Basically, they're just using computer models to design new molecules and predict the effects of those molecules in organisms.
So I'm guessing that has some sort of a validity, but it seems that chemistry is moving towards trying to replace almost entirely the process of experimentation with modeling in a computer.
Yeah, it will rarely cause embarrassment for anyone.
The computers aren't going to invent anything shockingly unexpected, but experiments actually are constantly doing that.
Right, just for posterity, can we talk about the living fast, dying when, and the temperature in ROS and aging in general?
This is something I'll be perusing Twitter, and I'll still see people talking about increasing the metabolism increases the reactive oxygen species, and so maybe just unpacking that a little bit.
The ability to detoxify the free radicals increases when your metabolic rate is higher.
Slowing your metabolic rate, you shift towards the reductive, anti-oxidative state, and you grossly slow down your ability to inactivate the free radicals that are produced.
And then, just a slightly related topic, but calorie, reducing calorie deficit models, am I saying that right?
You pointed out in your Gender of Energy book that that could be from a multitude of different things, from PUFA restriction to heavy metal restriction.
People online commonly talk about longevity and aging like they're the same thing, but they're not really the same, right?
No.
You can avoid the main things that kill old people, and you can extend lifespan up to 90 or 100 or so, and that's what the genetic determinists emphasize.
They say that the process is essentially mechanical, and it's all ordained by some Hayflick principle or the necessary accumulation of free radical damage.
But the experiments that show that the more saturated fat animals live at a higher temperature without damage and live much longer than animals of a similar weight with highly unsaturated membranes.
So the hotter you are, the more you revise your fats away from unsaturation.
If you just grow soybeans, for example, in a hot, humid climate or in a northern climate where they usually grow them, they'll have more saturated fats when they grow in the more humid and warm climate.
And if you have a pig in the north eating the usual corn and beans diet, it's going to have very unsaturated fat in the layer under it close to its skin because the skin is constantly living at a lower temperature.
But if you put a sweater on the pig so its skin doesn't get so chilled on the same diet, its subcutaneous fat will be much more saturated.
So we adjust to keep the hot tissues from getting over-unsaturated.
And the breakdown largely in the mitochondria of polyunsaturated fats turns down the oxidation energy production and lets only the random kind of oxidative damage occur.
Aren't the polyunsaturated fats, in contrast to the saturated ones, aren't the PUFAs also deactivating the uncoupling enzymes, the ones that raise temperature?
Yeah.
In general, the life-extending things do increase the uncoupling activity.
I've also seen several studies showing that lower temperature increases the activity of the enzyme aromatase.
Have you seen anything in regards to that effect?
Yeah. A Russian experimenter noticed that the temperature connection of both testicles and ovaries live considerably cooler than the core temperature of the body.
And that's surprising in the case of ovaries because they're in the core of the body, but they have some kind of a cooling system that keeps their temperature lower.
And so he chopped up bits of ovaries and implanted them under the ear skin of rabbits. Their long ears in a cool climate are several degrees cooler than the rest of the body.
And he found that they went into constant estrus and they had the ovaries living at that very low temperature.
So they were overproducing estrogen, basically?
Yeah.
Is there any adaptive function of the chronic inflammation that seems to be happening under constant exposure to low temperature?
Is it like a desperate attempt to raise temperature because the inflammation usually triggers some kind of a fever?
I don't think I understand why it happens.
The proper response to injury doesn't involve inflammation, and so I think those are being used in a way that they weren't intended by the organism to be used.
I think they function in a healthy environment, in a complete well-nourished environment with the right oxygen tension and so on.
I think they function as regulators and don't really turn on that anti-biological kind of inflammation.
So if a person's or if an organism's stores of fat were, let's say, 100% saturated, when they're exposed to cold, there wouldn't necessarily be an inflammatory response.
That fat will flood the bloodstream, but if saturated fats have an uncoupling effect, then basically that would serve the purpose of raising temperature, but in a positive manner,
versus the PUFAs, when they flood the bloodstream, which is called due to increased lipolysis, they will simply serve as a precursor to the inflammatory mediator.
So it will still raise temperature, but in a very pathological and disadaptive way.
Yeah, I think that's part of why injured fetuses inside the womb don't heal by forming a scar.
They heal perfectly, just like a fragment of an embryo can complete itself. A damaged part of a fetus can regenerate itself without forming a scar.
I think that's because of the high temperature, steady temperature, and carbon dioxide and glucose meeting the needs so that those very same peptides and such that cause inflammation in the worst situation
are constructive, reparative, rather than causing the damage of inflammation.
In terms of reactive oxygen species, do they have any positive function? I was under the impression that some of them participate in the oxidative destruction of things like serotonin.
So it's good to have at least some level of those, right?
Some level of which?
Of reactive oxygen species.
Oh, locally produced, yeah. The amino oxidase, I think that's the enzyme in the lungs and a few other places that destroys serotonin.
Right. But I guess the medical industry, when they say reactive oxygen species, from what I understand is they tend to accumulate or form when there's actually a blockage of metabolism.
There was a recent study which showed that administering chemicals that block any of the electron transport chain complexes drastically increased the production of reactive oxygen species.
So it's low metabolism that causes ROS, not high.
Yeah.
Right. You mentioned Broda Barnes in your newsletter and I feel like I send people quotes from Hypothyroidism, the unsuspecting illness, like multiple times per day.
When did you learn about him? And then was that the reason, was he kind of the inspiration for the first time you yourself took thyroid?
His books came out, I think, early 1970s.
And I didn't connect him specifically. I had been thinking about it for years, but since I had a much above normal metabolic rate, I had to learn other things before I was willing to experiment with thyroid.
Because I was, for example, on a BMR machine where you breathe oxygen while lying at rest.
The machine is set up so that you're supposed to, in the couple of minutes during the test, you're expected to breathe somewhere between a third and two thirds of the can that contains the oxygen that you're measuring.
And during the time of the test, before the test was over, I had used up the oxygen.
So it was looked from the slope of the line like it was about three times the normal rate. And I was aware of that for just about nine or ten years before I finally convinced myself to try taking thyroid.
And when I did, within a few days, my rate of metabolism had come down to approximately normal.
You've mentioned this a few times. It's always been slightly confusing to me. Do you think your high, natural high rate of metabolism was from stress and taking the thyroid lowered it?
Since then, I've known a few men in their 20s to early 40s with a similar thing. They would weigh maybe 140 pounds and be 5'8" or 10" or so.
And no matter how much they ate, they couldn't gain any weight. And from my own experience, I suggested they try thyroid. And every one of them immediately started building muscle and growing.
My interpretation was, after I read Jerry Ikawa's book on magnesium, he had some information in it about the mechanism by which the body retains magnesium.
And it's held inside the cells largely as a complex with ATP. Magnesium ATP is in effect a compound.
And when you have more ADP, the de-energized form, that associates with calcium. And so as your energy level goes down, your cells pick up calcium and lose magnesium.
And if you lose magnesium, you get cramping and inability to relax fully. And so the cell sits there spending energy just making ATP so that it can hang on to magnesium which tends to get lost.
And supplementing magnesium to a hypothyroid person will typically relieve their symptoms for a very short time, maybe just a few hours.
And if you measure it, the amount you put in and the amount that comes out in your urine a few hours later, they've lost all of the magnesium you put in them.
But if you give them quick-acting T3 and magnesium and then check their urine the same time later, they haven't lost their magnesium.
It's just like a switch letting your cells retain the magnesium.
When you first took thyroid, you said it lowered your basal metabolic rate. But did that also accompanied by a resolution of maybe some type of symptoms that you noticed as well or no?
No. Oh, yeah. When I lectured someone, I asked why I wasn't fidgeting the way I always did before.
And I slept much more easily without being wakened by any little environmental noise. I was going into a deeper sleep. So those were very sudden changes that went with the metabolic rate.
So in terms of the measure of the metabolic rate, that machine measures the metabolic rate, but it doesn't measure your rate of carbon dioxide production.
So in order to find out if your basal metabolic rate is high and also in a good way, you also have to measure how much carbon dioxide you expire, right?
That's what matters, the amount of carbon dioxide produced per unit of oxygen consumed.
It should be very close to the same.
Right. And if somebody has a very high rate of oxygen consumption but low rate of carbon dioxide production, that means they're running on the stress metabolism.
They're getting ransomed quickly.
Yep. Okay. So that's basically adrenaline and cortisol driving their metabolic rate.
Mm-hmm.
Okay.
Maybe we could touch on PUFA and hibernation. And Ray, are you familiar with Chris Knob? He seems to have read your articles.
He's talking about cardiolipin and cytochrome C oxidase. And so I don't know if you've communicated with him at all, but he seems to be saying a lot of the things you've been saying for a very long time.
What's the last name?
Knob, K-N-O-B-B-E. He has a video on YouTube called the PUFA Apocalypse, I think.
Nope. I haven't heard of him.
I think he's familiar with your work. But anyways, just the general, you know, your biological view of PUFA and hibernation.
And you had quoted articles in your newest newsletter, but also the ones that I had read a few of them by Geiser, first name F.
And again, I'm always astounded when I read these articles and they just perfectly align with what you're talking about.
Yeah, they've known that for a long time, that animals eat unsaturated fats in the fall when the nuts are ready and that their bodies become much more polyunsaturated.
And then they go to sleep or don't really go to sleep. They go into a tarp. And the typical hibernator who gets very tarpid and cold, they usually have to wake up two or three times from the tarp to go to sleep because they actually need real sleep for brain maintenance and repair.
And we don't go into hibernation. We just get a cold brain and get sick when we go into our pseudo hibernation phase.
Yeah, the deep sleep needs a good warm temperature, right up 98 plus something to sleep into the deep sleep.
That's all I had about the news. Georgie, any other questions before we go into conspiracy stuff?
I think there were a few studies recently done that show that hibernating animals refuse to eat nuts and the seeds if they're given during the hot months in the spring and the summer.
So this whole premise that, oh, look at all these animals that are thriving on nuts and seeds that are filled with PUFA. No, they actually seem to be eating them at very specific times of year.
They refuse to eat them when they're actually fully active and running around and mating. They only eat them when they're about to go into torpor.
They're very sensible.
Okay. I shouldn't even call it conspiracy. It's just the news because it's so in your face with what's going on.
Ray, are you surprised that the lack of coordination between the messaging behind the vaccine, it seems so incoherent that I know people that, again, aren't into these alternative theories or trying to figure out what's going on,
that they're confused by what's happening? Like you still need to wear a mask if you get a vaccine. It doesn't protect you from the virus, they say. It doesn't seem like they're coordinated with what they're talking about.
Yeah, this is someone who's assuming that there is something sensible going on.
Yeah, yes.
If you pay close attention to the experts, especially the government-connected experts, I haven't seen anyone who is either both informed and honest.
A lot of them, I think, are both ignorant and not caring about the honesty of it.
Did you see the...
Everything they talk about, like describing COVID as a new, uniquely bad disease, I've heard probably 15 or 20 people who are supposedly experts say that they named the various features,
but everything they say is unique about it was an outstanding feature of influenza, and supposedly they're respiratory experts.
So how can they say that because something has exactly the same side effects that influenza had, that it's some uniquely new and bad condition?
Everything you look at, they wouldn't be embarrassing themselves if they had the sense.
Because this is so sloppy, is there any way to entertain the idea that, again, people are seeing people having allergies and all these bad reactions to the vaccine?
Do you think it's being rushed so quickly that it's possible that it scares an even larger portion of the people that, even if that did happen, it'd just be a little bump in the road and they're still going to push forward with their agenda no matter what?
We should hope that it's going to scare a lot of people.
Did you read the Pfizer publication that came out, I think, Monday?
Maybe.
New England Journal of Medicine, the chief editor, who is not a virologist, wrote an editorial to go with Pfizer's statement.
And he not only wrote the editorial saying what a triumph this information is, but he was on the FDA committee that voted for it.
And his magazine gets huge amounts of advertising from Pfizer.
So it's all an inside deal.
And if you go through what Pfizer actually said, they didn't say a peep about the nature of the population and who was excluded from the tests.
But when two English nurses on the first day developed anaphylaxis, after that happened, someone asked them, asked Pfizer, and they said, well, allergy was one of the groups that was excluded from testing.
So now they tell us.
And they also excluded old people, apparently.
But the first people who are going to get the actual vaccine are said to be the people in long-term care homes, the frail and old, exactly the people that vaccines usually don't work very well with, but who might be most susceptible to dying very soon from getting the inflammation that it produces.
And the editor in chief, Eric Rubin, who said it was a triumph on a radio interview, he said he was glad that his young, healthy patients weren't in line to receive the virus now, the vaccine now for a few months, so that they would be able to see what its effects are on frail old people.
[laughter]
Laughing because it's crazy.
It's hard to imagine anyone who could say that, but I think you can find it on the internet.
The guy who was praising it, saying that better for his healthy people not to risk it.
>> Yeah, some -- what was her name?
Dr. Kelly Moore, associate director of the immunization action coalition, says don't be surprised when older people dying within a day or two of their vaccination who are residents in long-term care facilities.
And this reddit commenter was saying they've been saying for months that if you go outside without a mask, you're the devil, but they're going to be killing people in old folks' homes, and that's just part of the vaccination.
It doesn't make any sense.
>> When it came out that they had excluded allergic people from the tests for their safety, an official at the FDA said there are 1.6 million allergic people in the United States who might suffer anaphylaxis from a vaccination.
And I think that's a pretty big number.
1.6 million is a lot of people.
We can't afford not to vaccinate that large number of people.
So naturally they will be required to risk anaphylaxis.
And I think that's a pretty big number.
But if you look at the PCR test, it has a notoriously high false negative rate.
>> I think it's a pretty big number.